+++
title = "blog test 1"
description = "Korean grammar notes"
type = ["posts","post"]
tags = [
    "korean",
    "grammar",
    "language-learning",
    "immersion",
]
date = "2022-02-21"
categories = [
    "korean",
    "language-learning",
]
series = ["HTSK"]
[ author ]
  name = "Massimo Meert"
+++

# Lesson 2

## 있다: To have
This usage of 있다 in Korean is an *adjective*. Sentences with adjectives cannot act on objects, thus you cannot have a word with the particle ~을/를 attached to it if the predicating word in a sentence is an adjective.

To get around this, we can attach ~이/가 to the object instead in sentences with 있다. To indicate the thing that a person “has” in sentences with 있다.

- 저는 가방이 있어요 = I have a backpack.
- 저는 차가 있어요 = I have a car.

## Indicating a place or time: ~에
~에 denotes a place or time, it can therefore be used twice in a sentence.
“I went to the park at 10:00” would have ~에 attached to both "park" and "10:00".

## 있다: to be at a location
있다 can also be used to indicate that something/someone is at a location.

- 저는 학교에 있어요 = I am at school.
- 저는 캐나다에 있어요 = I am in Canada.

We can also use position words to indicate specifically where someone/something is with respect to another noun.

- 안 = inside
- 위 = on top
- 밑 = below
- 옆 = beside
- 뒤 = behind
- 앞 = in front

These words are placed after a noun to indicate where an object is with respect to that noun. The particle “~에” is then attached directly to the position words. For example:

- 저는 학교 앞에 있어요 = I am in front of the school.
- 개는 집 안에 있어요 = The dog is inside the house.
- 고양이는 의자 밑에 있어요 = The cat is under the chair.
- 식당은 은행 옆에 있어요 = The restaurant is next to the bank.

## ~이/가 as a subject marker
- 고양이**는** 집 뒤에 있어요 = The cat is behind the house.
- 고양이**가** 집 뒤에 있어요 = The cat is behind the house.

~이/가, like ~는/은, is added to the subject of the sentence. In some situations, there is no difference in meaning or feel between adding ~이/가 or ~는/은 to the subject.

However ~는/은 also has a role of indicating that something is being compared with something else. In our example, the is only one sentence which gives the listener no context as to what "the cat" is compared with. However if I were to say "The dog is in the house, and, the cat is behind the house" the context fits the situation.

The good thing is, even if you make a mistake with the usages of ~이/가 and ~는/은, 99.9% of the time, the listener will be able to understand exactly what you are trying to express.
